# User Experience Questions

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15IAxIcpPnDrnnvdIUelWKkVTlGhVxkC0IsbMiHClLGQ/edit#slide=id.ga8bf2db1e0_0_0



#### 1. What does the user see first?

The first thing a user sees for now is simply their main timeline. There all
updates are shown in chronological order.



#### 2. How does the user create an update?

For the MVP the user simply writes in the action bar. With more text the action
bar extends vertically. When providing text for the update a send button appears
to the right, moving any other icons down. Upon clicking the send button the
update gets created and the action bar resets. Bonus points for submitting at
"cmd+enter".



#### 3. How do you define what kind of update you write?

For the MVP there is just not be any differentiator for updates. Like in Twitter
we start out with one timeline and one update type, knowingly that this needs to
be extended in the near future.



#### 4. How does the user provide the metric?

The user provides metrics in natural language, as word or number. Writing
"three" should result in the data point 3. Writing "25" should result in the
data point to be 25. If multiple numbers are given we just take the first for
now.



#### 5. How does ‘smart detection’ work?

As described above. Later we can become more sophisticated.



#### 6. Any number word becomes the value?

According to the detection, yes. This is good enough for the MVP and will be
improved later on if we have reason for it.



#### 7. Do we have to provide an input field?

We only need one input field ever. This is the action bar. If the update and the
metric is provided together in natural language, metric values is detected.



#### 8. How should the user be able to write the update?

See above, simply by providing natural language in text form for the MVP. Later
audio would be a feature to be implemented.



#### 9. What happens when the user creates the update?

Considering the answer for question `2.` the update card will be created and
shown at the top of the timeline.



#### 10. Where is the user going?

As mentioned above the user stays where they are in the main timeline. Focus on
the actio bar. Created update visible.



#### 11. What does the user see?

As mentioned above the user sees the newly created update at the top of their
timeline. On hover over an update card the user sees action buttons appearing to
the left of the update.



#### 12. What happens when the user flips the card the first time?

On the first data point we could display the first data point and show some
blurry fake data points just to show that there is more about to happen when the
user keeps going. We can also show some motivational message until enough data
points are available to show the user's full graph.



#### 13. Is there any discovery mechanism on the graph?

I would really like to have a discovery mechanism in the MVP because it is one
game changer feature that shows how powerful the platform can be. The
implication is that this may take some time to implement, even though it is
really just a link to another update. We need to talk about this.



#### 14. Do we support hashtags and @ mentions?

For the MVP we maybe want to at least colour hashtags without adding any
functionality to it. We could show a hover tooltip that something super cool is
about to happen "soon". We need to talk about this.



#### 15. If yes, what do the hashtags and mentions do respectively?

As described above.



#### 16. Can the user delete updates?

For the MVP the user cannot delete updates.



#### 17. Can the user change the metric associated with the text?

For the MVP the user cannot change the metric.



#### 18. Can the user change the text?

For the MVP the user cannot change the text.



#### 19. What value do we think this whole experience creates for the user?

- simple
- effective
- correleation
- maybe discovery mechanism
- update tracking
- metric detection
